README.md, before:

# dio-http-cache-extension

[![Pub](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/dio_http_cache.svg?style=flat)](https://pub.dev/packages/dio_http_cache) 

[中文介绍](./README_zh.md)

Dio-http-cache is a cache library for [Dio ( http client for flutter )](https://github.com/flutterchina/dio), like [Rxcache](https://github.com/VictorAlbertos/RxCache) in Android.

Dio-http-cache uses [sqflite](https://github.com/tekartik/sqflite) as  disk cache, and  [LRU](https://github.com/google/quiver-dart) strategy as memory cache.

Inspired by [flutter_cache_manager](https://github.com/renefloor/flutter_cache_manager).

### Add Dependency 

```yaml
dependencies:
  dio_http_cache_extension: ^#latest version
```

### QuickStart

1. Add a dio-http-cache interceptor in Dio :

   ```dart
   dio.interceptors.add(HttpCacheManager(HttpCacheSetting(baseUrl: "http://www.google.com")).interceptor);
   ```

2. Set maxAge for a request :

   ```dart
   Dio().get(
     "http://www.google.com",
     options: buildCacheOptions(Duration(days: 7)),
   );
   ```

### The advanced

1. **Custom your config by buildCacheOptions :**
  
   1. **primaryKey:** By default, `host + path` is used as the primaryKey, and you can also customize it.
   
   2. **subKey:** By default, query ( data or queryParameters) is used as subKey, and you can specify  the subKey when it's necessary, for example:
   
      ```dart
      buildCacheOptions(Duration(days: 7), subKey: "page=1")
      ```
   
   3. **maxAge:** set the cache time. If the value is null or not setted, it will try to get maxAge and maxStale from response headers.
   
   4. **maxStale:** set stale time. When an error (like 500,404) occurs before maxStale, try to return cache.
   
      ```dart
      buildCacheOptions(Duration(days: 7), maxStale: Duration(days: 10))
      ```
   
   5. **forceRefresh**: false default.
   
      ```dart
      buildCacheOptions(Duration(days: 7), forceRefresh: true)
      ```
   
      1. Get data from network first.
      2. If getting data from network succeeds, store or refresh cache.
      3. If getting data from network fails or no network avaliable, **try** get data from cache instead of an error.
   
2. **Use "HttpCacheSetting" to config default params**

   1. **baseUrl:** it’s optional; If you don't have set baseUrl in CacheConfig, when you call `deleteCache`, you need provide full path like `"https://www.google.com/search?q=hello"`, but not just `"search?q=hello"`.
   2. **encrypt / decrypt:**  these two must be used together to encrypt the disk cache data, you can also zip data here.
   3. **defaultMaxAge:**  use `Duration(day:7)` as default.
   4. **defaultMaxStale:** similar with DefaultMaxAge.
   5. **databasePath:** database path.
   6. **databaseName:** database name.
   7. **skipMemoryCache:** false defalut.
   8. **skipDbCache:** false default.
   9. **maxMemoryCacheCount:** 100 defalut.
   10. **defaultRequestMethod**: use "POST" as default, it will be used in `delete caches`.

3. **Use "HttpCacheManager.custom" to custom disk storage**

   just extends abstract class **IHttpLocalCacheRepository**

4. **How to clear expired cache**

   * Just ignore it, that is automatic.

   * But if you insist : `_dioCacheManager.clearExpired();`

5. **How to delete caches**

   1. No matter what subKey is, delete local cache if primary matched.

      ```dart
      // Automatically parses primarykey from path
      _dioCacheManager.deleteByPrimaryKey(path, requestMethod: "POST"); 
      ```

   2. Delete local cache when both primaryKey and subKey matched.

      ```dart
      // delete local cache when both primaryKey and subKey matched.
      _dioCacheManager.deleteByPrimaryKeyAndSubKey(path, requestMethod: "GET"); 
      ```

      **INPORTANT:** If you have additional parameters when requesting the http interface, you must take them with it, for example:

      ```dart
      _dio.get(_url, queryParameters: {'k': keyword}, 
      	options: buildCacheOptions(Duration(hours: 1)))
      //delete the cache:
      _dioCacheManager.deleteByPrimaryKeyAndSubKey(_url, requestMethod: "GET", queryParameters:{'k': keyword}); 
      ```

      ```dart
      _dio.post(_url, data: {'k': keyword}, 
      	options: buildCacheOptions(Duration(hours: 1)))
      //delete the cache:
      _dioCacheManager.deleteByPrimaryKeyAndSubKey(_url, requestMethod: "POST", data:{'k': keyword}); 
      ```

   3. Delete local cache by primaryKey and optional subKey if you know your primarykey and subkey exactly.

      ```dart
      // delete local cache by primaryKey and optional subKey
      _dioCacheManager.delete(primaryKey,{subKey,requestMethod});
      ```

6. **How to clear All caches** (expired or not)

   ```dart
   _dioCacheManager.clearAll();
   ```
   
7. **How to know if the data come from Cache**

   ```dart
   if (null != response.headers.value(DIO_CACHE_HEADER_KEY_DATA_SOURCE)) {
		// data come from cache
   } else {
		// data come from net
   }
   ```


###  Example for maxAge and maxStale

```dart
_dio.post(
	"https://www.exmaple.com",
	data: {'k': "keyword"},
	options:buildCacheOptions(
  		Duration(days: 3), 
  		maxStale: Duration(days: 7), 
	)
)
```

1. 0 ~ 3 days : Return data from cache directly (irrelevant with network).
2. 3 ~ 7 days: 
   1. Get data from network first.
   2. If getting data from network succeeds, refresh cache.
   3. If getting data from network fails or no network avaliable, **try** get data from cache instead of an error.
3. 7 ~ ∞ days: It won't use cache anymore, and the cache will be deleted at the right time.

### License

   ```
Copyright 2019 Hurshi

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
   ```

Commit message:

- update unit test for function test.

README.md, after:

# dio-http-cache-extension

[![Pub](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/dio_http_cache.svg?style=flat)](https://pub.dev/packages/dio_http_cache) 

[中文介绍](./README_zh.md)

Dio-http-cache is a cache library for [Dio ( http client for flutter )](https://github.com/flutterchina/dio), like [Rxcache](https://github.com/VictorAlbertos/RxCache) in Android.

Dio-http-cache uses [sqflite](https://github.com/tekartik/sqflite) as  disk cache, and  [LRU](https://github.com/google/quiver-dart) strategy as memory cache.

Inspired by [flutter_cache_manager](https://github.com/renefloor/flutter_cache_manager).

### Add Dependency 

```yaml
dependencies:
  dio_http_cache_extension: ^#latest version
```

### QuickStart

1. Add a dio-http-cache interceptor in Dio :

   ```dart
   dio.interceptors.add(HttpCacheManager(HttpCacheSetting(baseUrl: "http://www.google.com")).interceptor);
   ```

2. Set maxAge for a request :

   ```dart
   Dio().get(
     "http://www.google.com",
     options: buildCacheOptions(Duration(days: 7)),
   );
   ```

### The advanced

1. **Custom your config by buildCacheOptions :**
  
   1. **primaryKey:** By default, `host + path` is used as the primaryKey, and you can also customize it.
   
   2. **subKey:** By default, query ( data or queryParameters) is used as subKey, and you can specify  the subKey when it's necessary, for example:
   
      ```dart
      buildCacheOptions(Duration(days: 7), subKey: "page=1")
      ```
   
   3. **maxAge:** set the cache time. If the value is null or not setted, it will try to get maxAge and maxStale from response headers.
   
   4. **maxStale:** set stale time. When an error (like 500,404) occurs before maxStale, try to return cache.
   
      ```dart
      buildCacheOptions(Duration(days: 7), maxStale: Duration(days: 10))
      ```
   
   5. **forceRefresh**: false default.
   
      ```dart
      buildCacheOptions(Duration(days: 7), forceRefresh: true)
      ```
   
      1. Get data from network first.
      2. If getting data from network succeeds, store or refresh cache.
      3. If getting data from network fails or no network avaliable, **try** get data from cache instead of an error.
   
2. **Use "HttpCacheSetting" to config default params**

   1. **baseUrl:** it’s optional; If you don't have set baseUrl in CacheConfig, when you call `deleteCache`, you need provide full path like `"https://www.google.com/search?q=hello"`, but not just `"search?q=hello"`.
   2. **encrypt / decrypt:**  these two must be used together to encrypt the disk cache data, you can also zip data here.
   3. **defaultMaxAge:**  use `Duration(day:7)` as default.
   4. **defaultMaxStale:** similar with DefaultMaxAge.
   5. **databasePath:** database path.
   6. **databaseName:** database name.
   7. **skipMemoryCache:** false defalut.
   8. **skipDbCache:** false default.
   9. **maxMemoryCacheCount:** 100 defalut.
   10. **defaultRequestMethod**: use "POST" as default, it will be used in `delete caches`.

3. **Use "HttpCacheManager.custom" to custom disk storage**

   just extends abstract class **IHttpLocalCacheRepository**

4. **How to clear expired cache**

   * Just ignore it, that is automatic.

   * But if you insist : `_dioCacheManager.clearExpired();`

5. **How to delete caches**

   1. No matter what subKey is, delete local cache if primary matched.

      ```dart
      // Automatically parses primarykey from path
      _dioCacheManager.deleteByPrimaryKey(path, requestMethod: "POST"); 
      ```

   2. Delete local cache when both primaryKey and subKey matched.

      ```dart
      // delete local cache when both primaryKey and subKey matched.
      _dioCacheManager.deleteByPrimaryKeyAndSubKey(path, requestMethod: "GET"); 
      ```

      **INPORTANT:** If you have additional parameters when requesting the http interface, you must take them with it, for example:

      ```dart
      _dio.get(_url, queryParameters: {'k': keyword}, 
      	options: buildCacheOptions(Duration(hours: 1)))
      //delete the cache:
      _dioCacheManager.deleteByPrimaryKeyAndSubKey(_url, requestMethod: "GET", queryParameters:{'k': keyword}); 
      ```

      ```dart
      _dio.post(_url, data: {'k': keyword}, 
      	options: buildCacheOptions(Duration(hours: 1)))
      //delete the cache:
      _dioCacheManager.deleteByPrimaryKeyAndSubKey(_url, requestMethod: "POST", data:{'k': keyword}); 
      ```

   3. Delete local cache by primaryKey and optional subKey if you know your primarykey and subkey exactly.

      ```dart
      // delete local cache by primaryKey and optional subKey
      _dioCacheManager.delete(primaryKey,{subKey,requestMethod});
      ```

6. **How to clear All caches** (expired or not)

   ```dart
   _dioCacheManager.clearAll();
   ```
   
7. **How to know if the data come from Cache**

   ```dart
   if (null != response.headers.value(DIO_CACHE_HEADER_KEY_DATA_SOURCE)) {
		// data come from cache
   } else {
		// data come from net
   }
   ```
### Unit Test
1. Generate `coverage/lcov.info` file
flutter test --coverage
2. Generate HTML report
```dart
// Note: on macOS you need to have lcov installed on your system (`brew install lcov`) to use this:
```
genhtml coverage/lcov.info -o coverage/html
3. Open the report
open coverage/html/index.html


###  Example for maxAge and maxStale

```dart
_dio.post(
	"https://www.exmaple.com",
	data: {'k': "keyword"},
	options:buildCacheOptions(
  		Duration(days: 3), 
  		maxStale: Duration(days: 7), 
	)
)
```

1. 0 ~ 3 days : Return data from cache directly (irrelevant with network).
2. 3 ~ 7 days: 
   1. Get data from network first.
   2. If getting data from network succeeds, refresh cache.
   3. If getting data from network fails or no network avaliable, **try** get data from cache instead of an error.
3. 7 ~ ∞ days: It won't use cache anymore, and the cache will be deleted at the right time.

### License

   ```
Copyright 2019 Hurshi

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
   ```
